# Code Test C#
#### Task: To creating a simple back-end for an online marketplace

This repository can be used to create a simple back-end for an online marketplace. Coded in C#, using Swagger and MongoDB for persistent storage.

## Getting Started
### Installation
#### Create Mongo Database

Create a database using MongoDB within the terminal. 

1. Open Mongo by typing ```mongo``` into the terminal
2. Create a database called Inventory by entering ```use Inventory```
2. Create a table called Products by entering ```db.createCollection("Products")```
3. Optional - seed the database using the following:

```
db.Products.insertMany(
	[
		{'Name':'Lavender heart', 'Price':925}, 
		{'Name':'Personalised cufflinks', 'Price':4500}, 
		{'Name':'Kids T-shirt', 'Price':1995}
	]
)
```

#### Visual Studio

Install the following packages to ensure the code compiles:

1. Microsoft.Api (v.1.1.4)
2. Microsoft.VisualStudio.Web.CodeGeneration.Design (v.3.0.0)
3. MongoDB.Driver (v.2.9.3)
4. Swashbuckle.AspNetCore.SwaggerGen (v.5.0.0-rc4)
5. Swashbuckle.AspNetCore.SwaggerUI (v.5.0.0-rc4)
	- With Swagger, it is particularly important to be on version 5, as older versions of Swagger will throw conversion errors on compile.

## Run Build

Build and run and a browser window should open automatically to ```https://localhost:[port]/product``` and show all products stored. 

Visiting ```https://localhost:[port]/swagger/index.html``` will provide you with a list of endroutes.

## Future Developments

- Remove MongoDB and replace with MySQL / Postgres to allow for relational database mapping (also achievable through Mongoose with MongoDB, but I'm biased towards SQL).
- Currently, each product has an id which is autogenerated by MongoDB, but also has a product code which is manually set. Depending on use case, product code could be removed if each individual item were to have a unique product code (the generated id from the database would then act as the product code). 
	- These product codes as autogenerated unique ids would be easier to manage in a SQL database, as MongoDB generates large ids.
